Hi Kay

Further to my earlier note, you also asked during the call last week about the handling of delivery notes and payments in Peppol. Please see the following response provided by Georg:

Related to delivery notes, Peppol has Dispatch advice which is intended to inform the buyer of the items that are being delivered to him. The main purpose is to support the reception of the items on the buyers side. As such it does not provide information about prices and amounts. As speculation on the Japanese use cases. It seems to me from the discussion in the meeting earlier this week that the delivery note, as used in Japan, contains mostly the same information as an invoice and the main difference is the business meaning of the document, rather than the content. When raising an invoice the seller books it as revenue which increases his taxable profits and he becomes liable to pay the CT. The invoice also allows the buyer to charge the costs (i.e. lowering his taxable profit) and to reclaim CT. The invoice is also a formal claim from the seller to the buyer to pay for the value of the trade. The delivery note, on the other hand, only informs the buyer of what has been delivered and what its value is. The buyer can use this to control his purchases and liabilities but they do not affect the booked profits or tax. Both invoices and delivery notes are usually received and processed by the accounting department, whereas a dispatch advice would be received and processed by logistics. If this, in general, a correct understanding then the one way of solving this would be to define the delivery note as a type of the invoice document. That means it becomes a document by itself with its own document identifiers but its content is the same as the invoice. With this approach the invoice would not need to be specialized for Japan except to make sure the necessary references are supported, since the delivery note is a sub process. Another approach for Japan could be to propose, what is more common in Europe, to issue the actual invoices for every delivery and then to provide a periodic account statement that claims payment for the trade done in that period. Peppol does not have a current statement BIS but had one in an earlier version. For some reason, even though this process is common in Europe the statement document has not been widely adopted. The statement was specified by a CENBII project which was a predecessor to the EN16931. The latest version is attached.
 
Regarding the payment. The statement document can be used to claim payment to settle periodic balances. There is a Peppol BIS for Invoice Response and one status in that is to report the payment of an invoice. This is described here https://docs.peppol.eu/poacc/upgrade-3/profiles/63-invoiceresponse/#code-policy. In addition to this, Iceland developed a specification for Payment Notice that is modelled as a BIS but is not a Peppol BIS because Iceland has not been a Peppol Authority until now. I shared this with Australia and they translated it into English, and as far as I know it is being used in Australia more or less unchanged. It is used significantly by larger buyers in Iceland who pay many invoices at the time to key suppliers. The design of this document is that the buyer informs the seller of a payment, its amount and what invoices are being settled, one or more, with this payment, partially or in full. In comparison to the statement. In a statement it is the seller who lists the unsettled invoices and claims payment for them. In the Payment Notice it is the buyer who selects what he pays and notifies the seller so that the seller can process the payment. The payment notice seems to be useful when a buyer needs to delay payment of some invoices due to some issues. I am attaching the Icelandic version of this document since I don't have the Australian one. Even though your Icelandic may not be much better than my Japanese the data model in the document is UBL and in English and might give you an idea of how the document is designed, it starts on page 9 and then there is a message example at the end. This document could be submitted to Peppol for adoption as common BIS, backed by Iceland, Australia and Japan.

Apologies for sending separately,

Regards
Steve
